



Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                    B. Dsane-Selby
Request for Comments: 1407                             13 September 2019
Category: Experimental                                                  
ISSN: 2070-1721


                                FooChat

Abstract

   There were not enough chat protocols, FooChat allows seamless
   communication between clients and servers.  The simplicity of this
   protocol makes it a good example for low level networking.

Status of This Memo

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it is
   published for examination, experimental implementation, and
   evaluation.

   This document defines an Experimental Protocol for the Internet
   community.  This document is a product of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF
   community.  It has received public review and has been approved for
   publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Not
   all documents approved by the IESG are candidates for any level of
   Internet Standard; see Section 2 of RFC 7841.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1407.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Servers
     1.2.  Clients
     1.3.  Terminology
   2.  The FC Specification
     2.1.  Overview
     2.2.  Connecting to the server
     2.3.  Disconnecting from the server
     2.4.  Sending messages
     2.5.  Receiving messages
     2.6.  Server broadcasts
     2.7.  Getting a list of connected clients
   3.  Error messages
     3.1.  Sending a message to a non-existing client
   4.  Normative References
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Most chat protocols are very complex and require unncessary bandwidth
   being used.  FooChat solves this problem by implementing a simple
   protocol for communication that is also bandwidth efficient.

1.1.  Servers

   The server of FC, provides a point to which clients may connect to to
   communicate with each other.

1.2.  Clients

   Clients of FC connect to a central server in which they can
   communicate and send messages to other clients.

1.3.  Terminology

   The keywords MUST, MUST NOT, REQUIRED, SHALL, SHALL NOT, SHOULD,
   SHOULD NOT, RECOMMENDED, MAY, and OPTIONAL, when they appear in this
   document, are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

2.  The FC Specification

2.1.  Overview

   The FC protocol as described is for use for client to server
   connections.

2.2.  Connecting to the server

   Clients MUST connect to the server using TCP packets.  Clients MUST
   also connect on port *682651*.

   To initiate a connection clients SHALL send a TCP packet containing
   the message LOGN, a username, and a code version number.

   The server SHALL acknowledge the login by sending a TCP packet
   containing SUCC, the user id.

   The connection is made as follows:

   Client -> Server LOGN bob FC1
   Server -> Client SUCC 1

2.3.  Disconnecting from the server

   Clients SHOULD send a GDBY (goodbye) message when disconnecting from
   the server.

   Client -> Server GDBY

2.4.  Sending messages

   Clients send messages by sending TCP packets with the destination
   user ID as well as the message that you want to send.

   Example:

   Client -> Server SEND 2:hello world

   If messages are sent to the server ID of 0, that message will be
   broadcast to all other clients connected to the server.

   Client -> Server SEND 0:message to all clients
   Client -> Server SEND all:message to all clients

2.5.  Receiving messages

   Clients MUST implement a receive method such that they are able to
   identify the ID of the messages being received.  Server messages
   always come from ID 0.  They will include the user that is sending
   the message, followed by the content of the message.

   Example:

   Server -> Client RECV 2:hello world

2.6.  Server broadcasts

   When a new client connects to the server, the server will broadcast a
   message to all clients telling them both the user ID and the username
   of the new client.  Clients are required to keep track of all
   connected clients.

   Example:

   Server -> Client CONN 2:bob
   Server -> Client CONN 3:alice

   When a client disconnects from the server the server will broadcast a
   message containing the ID of the disconnecting client.  It is up to
   clients to remove the disconnecting client from their list of active
   clients.

   Example:

   Client -> Server DISC 2

2.7.  Getting a list of connected clients

   If clients send a message containing WHOO the server MUST send a
   response with all currently connected clients.  It is then up to the
   client to update it's list of currently connected users.

   Client -> Server WHOO
   Server -> Client CONN 1:sara
   Server -> Client CONN 2:bob
   Server -> Client CONN 3:alice

3.  Error messages

3.1.  Sending a message to a non-existing client

   If clients try to send messages to clients that aren't connected the
   server sends a EROR 1 message indicating that the client is no longer
   connected.  It is then up to the client to check the list of
   connected clients using a WHOO command.

   Client -> Server SEND 2:hello
   Server -> Client EROR 1
   Client -> Server WHOO
   Server -> Client CONN 1:sara
   Server -> Client CONN 3:alice

4.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

Author's Address

   Behan, Dsane-Selby
